Recipes: Translation example (#1913)
slint-ui/slint: docs/recipes/recipes.md

```
</details>

### Translations

> While waiting for Slint to handle [translations builtin](https://github.com/slint-ui/slint/issues/33), it is
> doable to do that with a global callback, that can then be implemented using any
> translation library such as [gettext](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gettext) or [fluent](https://projectfluent.org/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Slint doesn't currently provide built-in support for translations. We're tracking this feature in [our issue tracker](https://github.com/slint-ui/slint/issues/33).
Meanwhile, you can make your design translatable with a global callback, some native code, and a translation library such as [gettext](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gettext) or [fluent](https://projectfluent.org/).
```

Example using gettext:

```slint
import { HorizontalBox, Button } from "std-widgets.slint";

export global Tr := {
    // Do the translation of the first argument, with an array of string as supstitution
    callback gettext(string, [string]) -> string;

>     // A default implementation that return the original string for preview purposes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // A default implementation that returns the original string for preview purposes.
```

>     gettext(text, _) => {return text;}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    gettext(text, _) => { return text; }
```

}

Example := Window {
    property <int> count;
    HorizontalBox {
        Button {
            text: Tr.gettext("Button pressed {0} times", [count]);
        }
    }
}
```

> Then the translation can be extracted with `xgettext` and tranlated using gettext tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then the translatable text can be extracted with `xgettext` and tranlated using gettext tools:
```

```sh
xgettext -o example.pot example.slint
```

> The native code can add implement the callback and call gettext behind the same
> (a similar approach should be use for `ngettext` and `dgettext` and other gettext functions)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set this callback in your native code and call gettext behind the scenes. A similar approach should be used for `ngettext`,`dgettext`, and other gettext functions.
```

<details  data-snippet-language="rust">
<summary>Rust code</summary>

> This example uses [gettext-rs](https://docs.rs/gettext-rs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses [gettext-rs](https://docs.rs/gettext-rs):
```

```rust
slint::slint!{
import { HorizontalBox , Button } from "std-widgets.slint";

export global Tr := {
    // Do the translation of the first argument, with an array of string as supstitution
    callback gettext(string, [string]) -> string;
}

Example := Window {
    property <int> count;
    HorizontalBox {
        Button {
            text: Tr.gettext("Button pressed {0} times", [count]);
        }
    }
}
}

fn main() {
    let app = Example::new();
    app.global::<Tr>().on_gettext(|string, model| {
        use crate::slint::Model;

> #       let mut str = String::from(string.as_str()); /* (we don't depends on gettext-rs just for that)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#       let mut str = String::from(string.as_str()); /* (we don't depend on gettext-rs just for that)
```
